{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green133\blue85;\red31\green31\blue36;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red84\green130\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c74902\c52157\c33333;\csgenericrgb\c12054\c12284\c14131;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c85000;
\csgenericrgb\c33019\c51127\c99859;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab593
\pard\tx593\pardeftab593\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 # \cf4 Code of Conduct
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 We seek an energetic community that fosters a diverse and  inclusive enviornment that promotes participation from all members of our communiyt.  We value each member of our community and seek an environment where all members of our community experience a postive education experience where members are unaffected by non-inclusive behavior. Everyone who participates in our lab is expected to show respect, kindness, and patience with all other members within the lab at all times. 
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 Adrian Stier, as the head of the lab, and all members within the lab are dedicated to a \cf2 ***
\f2\i\b \cf4 harassment and discrimination-free experience for everyone.
\f0\i0\b0 \cf2 ***\cf4  Discrimination or harassment based on racial or ethnic background, citizenship status, religion (or lack thereof), political affiliation, gender identity/expression, sexual orientation, dis/ability status, appearance or body size will not be tolerated.  \cf2 **
\f3\b \cf4 We do not tolerate harassment or discrimination by and/or of members of our community in any form
\f0\b0 \cf2 **\cf4 . 
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 We are particularly motivated to support new and/or anxious collaborators, people who are looking to learn and develop their skills, and anyone who has experienced discrimination in the past. 
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 To make clear what is expected, we ask all members of the community to conform to the following Code of Conduct.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 *\cf4  All communication - online and in person - should be appropriate for a professional audience including people of many different backgrounds. Sexual or discriminatory language and imagery is not appropriate at any time.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 *\cf4  Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other contributers.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 *\cf4  Behave professionally. Remember that harassment and sexist, racist, or exclusionary jokes are not appropriate.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 *\cf4  Please make an effort to make an inclusive environment for everyone. Give everyone a chance to talk and an opportunity to contribute.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 *\cf4  Bullying or cruelty of any kind will not be tolerated. 
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 *\cf4  Watch out for \cf2 [\cf4 microaggressions\cf2 ](\cf5 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microaggression\cf2 )\cf4 . \cf2 ***
\f2\i\b \cf4 Be aware that your actions can be hurtful to others or contribute to a negative environment even if you had no intent of harm.
\f0\i0\b0 \cf2 ***\cf4  Listen. Offer a genuine apology. Commit to learning and doing better.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 *\cf4  A SPECIAL NOTE: Your work in this lab will be publicly available and recorded permanently on github. Please conduct yourself accordingly.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 Unacceptable behavior includes offensive verbal comments related to gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of discussions, bullying, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 ***
\f2\i\b \cf4 Participants asked to stop any harassing or discriminatory behavior are expected to comply immediately.
\f0\i0\b0 \cf2 ***
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \
\

\f0\fs28 Members of the community who violate these rules - no matter how much they have contributed to the Bahlai lab, or how specialised their skill set - will be approached by Adrian Stier. If inappropriate behaviour persists after a discussion with Adrian, the issue will be escalated according to procedures laid out by the relevant entities in UC Santa Barbara's \cf2 [\cf4 Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion\cf2 ](\cf5 https://oeosh.ucsb.edu/titleix/discrimination\cf2 )
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 **
\f3\b \cf4 To report an issue
\f0\b0 \cf2 **\cf4  please contact \cf2 [\cf4 Adrian Stier\cf2 ](\cf5 https://github.com/adrianstier\cf2 )\cf4 . All communication will be treated as confidential.
\f1\fs24 \
\
\

\f0\fs28 \cf2 >
\f4\i \cf4  The material in this code of conduct is derived from Dr. Christie Bahali's lab "
\f0\i0 \cf2 [
\f4\i \cf4 Bahali Lab Policies
\f0\i0 \cf2 ](\cf5 https://github.com/BahlaiLab/Policies\cf2 )
\f4\i \cf4 " which was inspired by "
\f0\i0 \cf2 [
\f4\i \cf4 Whitaker Lab Project Management
\f0\i0 \cf2 ](\cf5 https://github.com/WhitakerLab/WhitakerLabProjectManagement\cf2 )
\f4\i \cf4 "by Dr. Kirstie Whitaker and the Whitaker Lab team. }